---
layout: post
title: Building a Team of Leaders
description: As you build your customer service team, motivation and drive can
  be huge challenges to overcome. Think and treat your team members like
  leaders, to help them achieve their best.
---

*Customer Service* has to be one of the worst terms on the planet. When you
tell your family or friends you work in *Customer Service*, they give you that
look. You know the one. "Oh, so you work in a call center" is what their eyes
are saying.

Let's face it, customer service isn't the sexiest function on any startup team.
Much of our time is spent interfacing with customers who have never used a web
application before, and we have the crazy email threads to prove it.

But there has been no function more important for the growth of our company
than support.  When our product was rough and incomplete, working closely with
our customers was the only way we continued growing. As we’ve marched the
product forward, support has informed us of the rough edges we didn’t get right
the first time, making our product more delightful and valuable to use.

Now that we have an established Customer Happiness team (five members strong),
one of the things I spend most of my time thinking about is how to keep our
team focused and motivated through the grind that is providing support.

At this point, we’re doing a pretty okay job; our small team handles support
for thousands of customers and has been consistently improving the customer
experience.

But that won’t come about automatically (or at least, it hasn’t for me). It
takes a lot of intentional work and focus to get it right. Over the last year,
I’ve been focused on empowering our support team to act like leaders. They
control a significant portion of the total customer , and empowering them to
make decisions that impact that experience every day is *the* difference
between a happy team of incredibly hard-working contributors, and a group of
people looking for “the next opportunity”.

To start, you must stop treating customer service as a place where creativity,
uniqueness, and excitement go to die. Stop thinking of support as a bunch of
inexperienced, unhappy people who should just glumly follow a script, day after
day. Instead, involve your team in challenging work, and make sure their
accomplishments are celebrated frequently.

Now, that sounds all well and good, but it’s definitely not easy to implement.
I’m not too proud to say that I’ve messed it up plenty of times. I want to tell
you what I’ve learned from those mistakes, in hopes you can avoid them
completely.

## Articulate a Clear Vision

As team lead, it is my job to clearly lay out (and defend, and evolve) the
company's vision for customer happiness. This vision has been developed
carefully over time, and is driven by communicating with customers, internal
discussion, and thinking deeply about the future of our business. 

As we've grown, I have to remind myself to communicate this vision, over and
over again. There have been many, many times where I *assumed* my team
understood my vision for customer service, instead of actually taking the time
to *communicate* it.

Any goals we measure our support performance against (i.e. number of tickets,
time to response, customer happiness rating) derive from our overarching
vision. We don't spend much time worrying about the number of replies per
conversation, for example, because changing that number doesn't get us any
closer to achieving our end goals. Growth of total tickets relative to customer
growth, however, is tracked closely, because we believe *the best support is no
support*. The more customers who have a great experience and don't require a
support conversation, the happier we hypothesize they'll be.

When the vision is clearly stated, and the connection between vision and
performance measurement makes sense, my team can be fully empowered to make
on-the-spot decisions. Situations that would go through a manager in other
organizations can be pushed to the individual closest to the situation.

As an example, Jordan may spend an hour working through a common friction
problem with developer Max, so that it can be resolved permanently. Jordan
knows this may affect our *time to reply*, but he can make that trade-off
because it gets us closer to achieving the overall vision.

As head of the team, make sure you create multiple venues to communicate your
vision. I do my best to write it down, say it aloud again and again, and make
it part of new team member onboarding. Listen carefully to team feedback and
defend your vision with reason and concrete examples, not with superiority.

During the hiring process, communicate the vision to potential candidates, and
be ready to hire those that challenge your thinking. When you work with them to
understand the vision, the right candidates will be excited to make it a
reality.


## Foster Ownership Over Key Projects

Burnout is a huge risk for customer support team members. Handling hundreds of
emails per week grates on the psyche and can wear down even the most gung-ho
support person.

To combat this, make sure every member of the team is being challenged
constantly and has other outlets for contributing to the team, beyond just the
answering emails in the inbox.

The first way we provide challenging work is through ownership. Once a new team
member is on-boarded and getting a handle on the key issues our customers face,
I start a discussion with them about ownership, and specifically what they want
to own within our team's purview.

We believe very strongly in ownership as a company - that having a point person
to fight for projects they believe are important is the best way to make sure
things get done well. No one gets to play dictator, but our output isn't a
muddled mess, either.

Being able to run a specific project means they don't need my approval for
making changes or taking risks. They get to *create* freely, which provides a
great outlet for learning new things and contributing to our customers' overall
joy in using the product.

In some cases, team members are going to pursue ownership over a project before
you as team lead even think about it. This has never been a problem, as long as
they continue to display mastery over their inbox work, which is their key
responsibility.

In other cases, team members might need more prodding to take on leadership
roles in their own projects. This isn't necessarily a bad thing - there are
many folks that are just happy to work as contributing team members. This is
fine when all is going well, but I've found that distinct ownership can make it
easier to fall back on something to contribute to when you are having an
off-day or week.

When considering project ownership for team members to take on, I start by
jotting down the team member’s strongest talents, and some things that need
work. I also solicit advice from the rest of the team - I ask them what this
person loves to do, or what parts of the customer’s experience could really use
their specific skill set.

Examples of ownership within our team are our on-boarding webinar, our
integration documentation, and our weekly inbox inventory email (which I talk
about in further detail later).


## Develop Product Sense

As a company, we are bombarded by feature requests - dozens every day. Most of
them come through the support inbox. Most of these suggestions, frankly, are
bad. 

To keep the product team from being inundated with these suggestions, It can
seem like a totally great idea to create a rigid process for passing feature
requests from the support team to product. Lots of organizations (ours
included) have used spreadsheets, whiteboards, and other tracking tools to
create an asynchronous sharing process (i.e. suggestions go somewhere for
review at a later date).

Here are two disastrous side-effects of a rigid process like this: 

First, because of the cost incurred in logging and deciphering feature
suggestions, no one will do it. This means product falls out-of-the-loop with
requests from actual paying customers.

Second, a rigid process creates a shitty dynamic for support folks. They are
getting all these requests, and they may not know what to do with them. They
are not getting active, thorough feedback on the validity of feature
suggestions. This can lead to *zombie tickets*, where no one knows how to
respond to the request, so they just leave the email for someone else to clean
up.

Make it a goal to develop a strong product sense in each and every member of
your support team. This makes it easier to identify potentially valuable
requests as they come in - no rigid process required.

To start the process of building product sense, ensure everyone can receive
near-immediate feedback for feature ideas and requests that come in through
support. We talk about them as a team (in our chat room) and loop in the
product team as appropriate.

By understanding the choices and thinking behind our product roadmap, each
support team member gets trained as a product manager. They develop a filter
that is strongly aligned with the product team, so that they can confidently
respond to customer requests. This, of course, makes the support team member
feel better, and it’s a more positive experience for the customer as well.


## Celebrate Wins

Spreading stories about the hard work Customer Happiness team members are
putting in was a major challenge early on. It's really difficult to inspire
folks from other disciplines when we talk about the number of emails answered
or how this one conversation ended with a happy customer.

They just don't *get* us, man.

We've been working to improve the communication between our team and the rest
of the company, specifically finding ways to celebrate team wins.

Two approaches we've found to be effective are consistent summary emails and
public, centralized tracking of our out-of-the-inbox work.

Each week, we put together the inbox inventory, an email for the team with
high-level support metrics. It contains metrics like volume of requests
handled, response time, and the major issues from the week. This has inspired
attention from the entire company on specific support problems, which leads to
better and faster solutions. It is an incredible feeling to hear a member of
the marketing team, for example, talking to a support team member about a big
issue over lunch.

The second approach is placing our team roadmap in a centralized place. We've
used Trello for this to great effect. When an issue comes in, we add it to our
Customer Happiness Trello board. Typical issues for us are documentation
confusion, places where our user experience could be improved, or ideas for new
learning resources.

The team can comment on the issue, vote it up (great for establishing team
priority), and pull in members from other teams as necessary. When the project
is complete, having it documented already in a public place provides an
excellent record of the achievement, which is huge for morale. This public
record also makes it much easier for the rest of the company to celebrate these
wins.


## Start Early

With everything else going on, it can seem unimportant to spend time deep
thinking about your team members’ motivation and leadership role in the
company. Possibly something that can wait until years down the road. Please,
take this advice from me: it is never too early to start.

I didn't think about this enough in the early years, and my first hires
suffered as a result. It's been a tough "rip off the band-aid" experience to
get them where they could have been, had I done a better job.

Set a strong vision for your team members, and then give them the tools and the
power to drive your customer's experience forward. If you do that, you will
find your team scaling support and customer joy far beyond what you could ever
provide yourself.

