Playing for yourself.

You're going to have failures. You're going to have doubts. They creep in
slowly, and make your stomach feel heavy and your head swirl with endless
thoughts.

You start thrashing, jotting down scribbled notes and parts of thoughts. It's
like you've got cement shoes - just a little bit slower than you were before,
and tired.

They happen, and getting over them is part of The Struggle. But the only way to
get loose when you're in the grip of a stuggle is to remember the singular
drive and love of the game that got you here. To remember that bringing your
very best self and effort to the problem has won battles before.

If you are going to contribute positively to a team, and be a rock for a team,
you've got to start with yourself. It's not selfish to play for yourself. It's
the only way to raise your game and excel. It's the only way to re-focus and
get back into your groove. You have to find what's important to you and what
drives you, and get back in there.

When I think about my own struggles, part of it is that I've lost control over
my own schedule. New responsibilities and points of focus for improvement have
thrown me for a loop, and I'm having trouble adjusting. Like a baseball hitter
facing nothing but breaking balls, I have to get back to fundamentals and
adjust my approach.

Looking back at my natural rhythms, I'm missing my **slow day**. That day where
I re-coup, let my mind relax, and reduce my number of inputs.

When I was running the show completely, these would build their way in
naturally - in fact I was actually pretty frustrated by my slow days. I moved
slower, barely making it outside. When I was a kid, my mom would ask if I was
sick, being that I'd spent hours sitting in the same spot, transfixed.

Finding a way to carve time for relaxation and true stillness feels really
important right now. When I do, the ideas start falling out in a steady stream,
instead of the fits and starts of a thrashing mind.
