---
layout: post
title: Being Held By The Hand
description: Even as most customers transition to wanting more self-service
  support, we have to address those that demand hand holding.
category: support
---

I've been preparing my talk for [UserConf](http://userconf.co/) for a few weeks
now. A lot of it is spent talking through dialogue by myself, which gets pretty
monotonous. The best part about the experience so far has been the chance to
present the talk to others and get their thoughts. This presentation represents
a lot of my opinions about support, which makes it great starting material for
conversations with some of the smartest support folks I know.

One conversation in particular has stuck in my brain. Somewhere in the
ramblings of my talk, I talk about how our most educated and confident users (I
actually steal Kathy Sierra's [badass user](http://businessofsoftware.org/2013/02/kathy-sierra-building-the-minimum-badass-user-business-of-software-a-masterclass-in-thinking-about-software-product-development/) term) no longer want to be held
by the hand and guided when it comes to support. Sure, they need help from time
to time, but they really want resources where they can solve their own
problems.

The question that came up was, "what about customers that really do want
personalized, one-on-one support? Do we just abandon them?"

OK, I know this a grossly oversimplification, but looking back at a lot of
these requests, and following through qualitatively on what happened in the
actual conversation, these request break down into two categories.

The first are people that use this approach with every product they sign up
for. They just believe they deserve better support than anyone else. Being
realistic, at our price points we can't serve this folks all that well
long-term. So we very rarely give in on this request.

The second group are folks who really want to make your service work, and they
are just overwhelmed by the whole on-boarding experience. They normally think
they aren't "techie" enough to figure out how to make it work for them. I see
this as evidence that we need to make our resources friendlier and more
approachable.
