---
layout: post
title: Coaching From Behind
description:
  One of the hardest parts about building a team has been learning how to coach
  those who are better than you are.
category: startups, support, growth
---

<div class="post-image"><img src="https://embed-ssl.wistia.com/deliveries/81eee9d3abafb45855f6955eabd3c93094dfebeb.bin" alt="sportfan_ch soccer kids" /></div>

I played lacrosse in high school. While we weren't the best team in the State
(that award almost always went to a team out in Long Island), we had a flawless
home record - when I graduated we hadn't lost at home in 6 years or something
crazy like that. I played a very small role in that success - what's actually
interesting about this story is our coach.

Coach Rudolph, or Rudy as we called him, was also my U.S. History teacher. He
was not a physically imposing guy - maybe 5'4" and 150 soaking wet. He had a
teacher's disposition and spat a lot while he talked.

I can vividly remember Coach running up and down the field, the lacrosse stick
dangling useless in his hand. When a ball was thrown his way, he often dropped
it, and then had trouble picking it up.

Coach Rudolph had never played lacrosse. To my knowledge, he had never played
any sports a day in his life. But his track record as a coach was unassailable.
Coach Rudolph also coached women's tennis - a team has *still* never lost a
match a home, some years losing barely a set.

Coach Rudolph couldn't really lead by example. He couldn't impress us with his
skills or swagger, and he couldn't tell us stories of his legendary victories
in order to gain our respect. 

Instead, we trusted Coach Rudolph because he knew our strengths and weaknesses,
and knew how to combine this group of unruly young men together to **win**. He
was the first person in my life to practice something I call **Coaching From
Behind**.

Lately, I'm finding myself unable to lead by example. My team writes better
emails, identifies flaws in my documentation, and tracks down trickier
technical issues than I ever did. I gave up the inbox begrudgingly, and it took
me some time to re-find my value in this company without it.

But it was clearly the right thing to do - the support inbox is marked with
more huge victories - angry customers turned to evangelists, confused customers
turned into successful Wistia users - than ever before. It's a thing of beauty,
and I'm damn lucky to see it.

So I'm reflecting on Coach Rudolph. I'm thinking about coaching from behind.

## What does a good coach do?

First, a good coach focuses on the long-term, and knows the short-term results
will come. Sir Alex Ferguson talks about this in
[his interview with Charlie Rose](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vS0hj4kiqsA)
(I highly recommend taking the time to watch it). This means meddling *less*, and
thinking about where we're going *more*. I need to learn what our customers
want from our support experience, and how we can constantly improve.

A good coach knows that process, and reinforcing good process, will scale
themselves far better than micromanagement. Coach Rudolph would run us through
a ground ball drill consistently, and the only time I ever saw him angry was
when we didn't take that drill seriously. During games, he counted the ground
balls we won more closely than who scored the goals. While the goals get the
glory, he knew winning the ground balls made it happen.

Finally, a good coach inspires leadership in those they are leading. [Watch
this talk](http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OqmdLcyES_Q) (illustrated, because
pictures are awesome) by Captain David Marquet, it will tell you everything you
need to know. Set the vision and communicate it well, and make sure those you
work with know they are empowered to make decisions that move us closer to that
vision. I'm lucky, I think everyone on my team would have quit Day 1 if we
didn't operate that way {{ ':thumbsup:' | emojify }}.

---

The biggest challenge for me is that none of this is my strong-suit. None of 
this is the stuff I gravitate towards naturally. Instead, I go out of my way to 
entangle myself deep in the weeds on specific projects that don't lend 
themselves to high-level thinking or data gathering. I'm still busy 
accumulating personal wins and putting out fires, rather than thinking about 
the strengths and weaknesses of my team and how their talents can be combined 
to make a whole that is greater than the sum of the parts.

I need to spend more time listening, and less time talking. I should be
providing slight course adjustments, not setting agendas. And I need to spend 
more time connecting with and listening to our customers, so I can prepare us
for our next big leap. If I truly care about our customers getting the fastest,
highest-quality help, that's my best course forward.

My job now is to take everything I've learned, compact it down so it's easy to
share, and then pass that along to the team. They will take my experience,
improve upon it, and then scale it beyond what I can do alone. Combine that
with the skills they came in with, we are making a pretty unstoppable force for
good.

This is a pretty awesome gig if you can get it {{ ":smiley:" | emojify }}.

*image credit: Flickr user [sportfan_ch](http://www.flickr.com/photos/sportfan_ch/10318031266/in/pool-soccerkids)*
