--- 
layout: post 
title: A New Customer Champion 
description: 
category: 
---

I'm so excited to say we're on the hunt for a new **Customer Champion** to join
our merry band {{ ":metal:" | emojify }}

**Customer Champion is a tough job.** They are the conduit between Wistia
(that's us!) and our awesome customers. Our small team (myself, Max, and
Jordan) spends most of the day talking to current and prospective customers, 
whether it's through support emails, phone calls, or Twitter conversations 
([@jordanmunson](http://twitter.com/jordanmunson) crushes it at that).

We named the role **Customer Champion** because *first*, it's crazy, and we're
all crazy, and *second*, this role really is about championing our customers
needs!

The **Customer Champion** represents customers needs as we consider new
features.  They are always on top of questions like: 

<blockquote style="font-size: 17px;">What do our customers dream about? What would make their lives better?</blockquote>

Below are some of our expectations for Customer Champion applicants, and also
some thoughts on why being a **Customer Champion** at
[Wistia](http://wistia.com) rocks {{":metal:" | emojify }}

### Support Customers as a Real Human

**Customer Champions** are an awesome blend of friendly and ridiculously
knowledgeable. We are a curious bunch - everyone has their niche of knowledge
(don't get Jordan started on metal band history, and Max is an 
[expert on audio recording technology](http://wistia.com/blog/non-sequitur-fridays-building-home-recording-studio/)).
We love learning new things, and helping our customers learn new things as
well.

We are cheery and excitable and kind, but never to cover up a lack of knowledge
or an ability to actually help the customer. There are lots of things we don't
know, but we do our best to track down the answers. In the rare occurrence that
we are totally stumped, the only response is to be transparent and honest. It
is never OK to blame the customer for asking a question.


### Support is the Center of the Action

Our new **Customer Champion** joins a super small team that is obsessed with
providing top-notch support. We don't separate support into a call center.  No
micro-management or strict regulation either - just the ability to do right by
the customer.

When we recently asked our customers what they loved most about the Wistia
experience, they chose support. We're building a business driven by great
support interactions, and as **Customer Champion** you'd be in the front seat.

Too often, I hear about support teams that are stuck out on an island,
separated from the rest of the team. That ain't gonna fly with us. We lean
heavily on tools like Campfire, Yammer, and iDoneThis to keep others in the
loop. We also work in tight quarters, so that experience and expertise can more
easily flow between team members. Everyone gets the support they need.


### Level Up Your Skills

As a team, we recently decided it would be really helpful for everyone in the
company to learn how to read and write code - designers, developers, Customer
Champions - everyone. Those of us without a lot of experience are diving into
mostly front-end (CSS, javascript) but some back-end as well (Ruby).  This is
critical from a support perspective, because it means *escalation* is no longer
necessary to solve problems. 

Javascript breakdown? We can handle that in the first conversation. Styling
conflicts? No problem. No more of those annoying "pinball" support experiences,
where the customer is passed around from department to department.

This gives our customers peace of mind. They can concentrate on their business - 
we got the video stuff covered {{ ":smiley:" | emojify }}

Our Customer Champions get access to the best tools available. We're already
using awesome tools like Code School and GitHub to make this happen.


### Automation is Expected

<div class="post_image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/9d8d571c20a699a071ed9c23c5b96aa6cd667e9e.png" alt="support requests growth graph"></div>

The chart above shows our total user growth over the last year plus, compared
to the total number of support requests received (an updated chart would be
even crazier). Early in 2012, we had an almost 1:1 ratio between conversations
with our customers and total Wistia users. 

OMG is that scary to think about now! With just the three of us full-time on
support, we'd be absolutely *crushed* by the flood of requests if that was still 
the case. So what changed? What saved us from the oncoming deluge? It was a 
relentless focus on automation and a whole lot of spit and duct 
tape {{ ":speedboat:" | emojify }}.

A wise man once said, "it's foolish to do the same job, day in and day out."
Our Customer Champions are vigilant for ways to automate themselves away,
because we believe **the best support is no support at all**. 

Our team is super small, which means automation is a must. There have been lots
of times when we would have been buried by requests if it wasn't for automating
and scaling our message (like using video, better documentation, etc.).

Automation can be a pretty scary idea - I mean when you are automating
everything, doesn't that mean at some point this role won't be necessary?
Believe me, nothing could be farther from the truth. When you automate away the
immediate issues, you free yourself up to take on even harder problems. The
more harder problems we solve together, the happier our customers will be
(customer delight FTW!).

Those who desire role security above all else need not apply. 


### The Wistia Team

I believe in our team because we make it *awesome*, and we give a shit.

We're an extremely productive and tight-knit team that takes care of each other
and our customers. That formula has proven itself pretty effective - we're
growing like wild and our customers love the brand more than ever. We also do
stuff like play ping-pong, go on hikes, ski, play video games, and teach each
other new skills. I consider our environment to be the best and most productive
I've experienced, and I know lots of the team would agree.


### Become the Next Customer Champion

Our type of support will never be easy. Additional smart and passionate folks
will help distribute the load. New ways to educate (improved onboarding, better
documentation, and more informative error handling) will even erase some issues
altogether. But it will never be easy. 

That's why our **Customer Champions** are so important. They handle our
customer's problems with a perfect harmony of skill and smiles. By our count,
few support teams have ever been set up this way. Consider it a "dare to be
great" situation.

If you got jazzed up by what I've said above, you should join us. Drop me an
email, I'm jeff @ wistia.com. Rock on! {{":guitar:" | emojify }}
