---
layout: post
title: Coming Out Of The Desert
description: Life at a small company changes as you approach business
  stability.
category: startups, growth
---

A few years ago, it was the Wild West.

Everyone was fighting battles on multiple fronts. Engineering, Product,
Marketing, Support, Design - each team was massively underwater, our resources
strained beyond their limits daily. There was no time to breathe, because if we
let off the gas pedal, we would lose. A lot of problems had to be "problems for
another day" because they didn't rise to the level of the largest current fire.

Slowly but surely, we are emerging from this era. As we bring new resources to
bear, we are able to spend time on things we could have only dreamed about a
few months or years ago. You'd think, with the immediate fear of extinction
lifted, anxiety levels would be at an all-time low.

**Not for me**. This has been the scariest time I've encountered in my Wistia
tenure.

In the past, projects were borne of necessity. We tackled the biggest fires and
lowest hanging fruit, because there was so much of it to tackle. Systems were
created and scaled only when, without them, the wheels would fall off the bus
and we would fall into chaos.

Today, our to-do lists are increasingly self-determined. We can make the
choices on what to focus on, instead of them coming from an obligation or a
looming deadline.  While support is still a constant need, for example, we are
building headroom to make it possible for all to contribute to the company's
future along the lines of their personal passions.

For the first time, I am spending my time thinking, "what should we be
working on?" Which is an exciting and scary question to ask.

We're trying a number of things to make this transition as successful as
possible (I'll only comment on those that I influence personally).



**We're meeting more often**. Or at least that's the goal. I've historically
found the concept of most meetings repulsive. I now admit that I couldn't build
a strong connection to my colleague's work without them. There are also huge
benefits to working out our biggest questions first in private sessions, where
the more obvious (and therefore often overlooked) questions can be asked, and
assumptions questioned, without the influence of large group thought.

As we've grown, there is also the new challenge of interpersonal relationships.
"Rough edges" between teammates could once be solved by a single conversation.
They are now such an inextricable web that they have no solution and require
constant vigilance instead. These relationships, in particular, do not come
naturally to me, and I've made it a goal to talk with everyone I work closely
with at least once a week. This constant interaction will make it much easier
for them to say "you know, something has been bothering me..." when it is
necessary.



**Transparency has risen to a primary goal**. In the past, information traveled
around on an as-needed basis. You know what we learned? This made people
uncomfortable, and uncomfortable people are more likely to snipe, gossip, and
criticize. They don't feel empowered to participate directly, so they use
other, less productive channels. 

We've pursued processes that make the sharing of information and gathering of
feedback easy. Instead of using *active* yet siloed tools like email, I'd
suggest making access to information (and the process of giving feedback)
democratic, yet passive. A Trello card and GitHub issue can be sought out and
openly discussed, but can also be safely out-of-mind for those with less
interest. Despite having more on-going projects across the company, it is
easier to be informed than ever.




**We're challenging how it's been done before**. It has been an important time
to examine critically how we do things, since we have new powers and
opportunities that would never have entered the conversation a few years ago.
Certain avenues were previously closed to us because of a lack of resources,
and the danger is we'll stick with what we know instead of branching out.

As an example, the concept of *spending money* is something I have to actively
make part of my problem-solving repertoire. It's great to be scrappy - but I am
sometimes blind to a better solution staring me in the face, simply because it
costs *money* {{ ":money_with_wings:" | emojify }}.


**Our new path, while a bit smoother than it was in the past, is not without
pitfalls!** Many of these are totally new to us, and are things that our limited
size and scope helped us steer clear of in the past.

**Losing connection with the customer experience**. This one keeps me up at
night. How do we avoid the all-to-common "ivory tower", where our team size and
resources growth insulate us from our customer's feedback? How do we maintain a
focus on building great product, instead of slipping into a quagmire of
mediocrity?

This isn't something that can ever be fully **solved**, but we can adopt values
and practices that create strong connections with our incredible customers. **All
Hands Support**, a practice we still religiously follow thanks to Mercer's hard
work, reminds us there are *many* customer problems to solve, and that focusing
on the *mundane* can be more valuable to our customers than the shiny and new.
**Customer Storytime**, a weekly lunchtime series Elise created, is an example
of something that was there, valuable and staring us in the face, for years
until a new member of the team stepped up and made it happen.

**Spreading ourselves too thin**. New team members bring new ideas and new
passions, and audience growth has led to more opportunities than ever. As a
result, we are being pulled in more directions. We have to be careful
that the volume growth in projects doesn't outpace the bandwidth we have for
critical review - otherwise we could find ourselves working on projects that
haven't been properly thought out (*I'm definitely guilty of that!*).


**Adopting a fear of failure**. One sad refrain I've heard again and again, in
slightly different form, is how success can breed a fear of failure. Our larger
audience means when we fail, we fail bigger, which can be scary. It's also
possible to only work on the comfortable, which works...until it doesn't.

Rituals like our Show and Tell, where work *in progress* and *lessons learned*
can be shared openly by every member of the team, create a culture that is more
accepting of feedback and failure. Our leadership also values learning, and the
sharing of that learning, over short-term success. I'm really proud of our
recent [Top Hat Tuesday review](http://wistia.com/blog/the-top-hat-mistake). 
The shuttering of a content endeavour, and acceptance that we didn't "kill it",
was tough but oh-so-necessary.


---


So here we are, still chugging along. We've found some *amazing* folks to join
us, co-workers who are dedicated and awesome at what they do (by the way, [you
should too](http://wistia.theresumator.com/apply/)).

The Wild West is gone. But it's been replaced with a new world with it's own
exciting challenges. I'm pumped to see how we navigate it.
