---
layout: post
title: "Zero"
description:
  I had to learn the hard way that being stretched too thin can
  destroy your productivity and erode your confidence. Here are some of my new
  practices to get control back over my projects.
category: work-life.
---

<div class="post-image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/41639b5ed0a1b6ef51e5f276dec31b2991a9c6a4.bin" alt="cambridge summer" /></div>

I took a trip recently to see my friend Bill Bounds in Atlanta. In the course
of catching up, he asked what seemed like a fairly inoccuous question: “what
are you working on, and for whom?”

I then stammered through 15 minutes of the different projects I was working on.
Customer Happiness team building (a hiring activity, which as a people and
schedule-intensive thing is really tough for me), a fairly major project
(organizing and contributing to a product update, which I’d never done before),
and covering a full part of our support process (the technical lead role, which
is one that takes a lot of time and focus). Along with those things, I was
trying to keep up with my consistent leadership and marketing rituals, which I
believed crucial to building a successful company.

Bill patiently listened to my entire response, taking occasional sips from a
cup of coffee. When my stuttering, stop-and-start explanation finally ground to
a halt, he said simply, “sounds like you’ve got a lot going on.” He was right.

My inbox was growing weeds, my Trello board was full of “immediate” projects
that required my attention, and I permanently had the feeling I was missing or
forgetting something. I was preoccupied in meetings, unable to focus on the
conversations and people I was working with, and my work relationships were
suffering. Since I wasn’t able to say “no", sometimes opportunities just got
silently pocket veto’d - lost in my inbox somewhere.

It’s easy in retrospect to diagnose my condition: I wasn’t in control of my
schedule, had stretched myself too thin with big projects, and on top of that,
my down time was completely swallowed up in a cycle of working on nonessential
things that seemed really important (the endless “fires” that crop up in our
daily work).

One of my interview questions revolves around the idea of prioritization -
given too much to do and not enough time, would an applicant be able to
prioritize, or would they simply expand their bandwidth to accommodate? But I
wasn’t following my own advice - I needed to get clear on what I could
meaningfully contribute to, and what was best undone, or given left to others
who would be even better or more energized by the opportunity.

I could write several blog posts on all the re-organizing and re-prioritizing
work that went into getting me back on track, but today I just want to talk
about the concept of **zero**. I’ve been inspired by several zero-based
practices, and I want to share them with you in the hopes they improve your
time management, your focus level, and your relationships.

## To-do list zero

The first two areas I tackled were my email inbox and my Trello board. I was
using Trello for my work list - blog post ideas, futuristic product concepts,
bugs, "this week" to-do items, immediate items. Every time someone would look
over my shoulder at the board, they would shudder and fall back aghast. It was
bad.

I started by re-organizing my Trello board, and moving my lists from being
*time-based* (this all needs to be done now!) to *project-based*. Each list was
related to the different “hats” I wear at work. This activity had the immediate
impact of clearing out almost half of my Trello cards, because I got to ask
myself “is this really important?” each time I moved something. I dropped
entire lists that weren’t related to my core contribution to the company and my
own personal growth.

Still, multiple lists left me somewhat un-organized and un-prioritized.  Which
were most important? It was weird, but I felt like I needed another layer of
organization.

Inspired by a post from Asana CEO Dustin Moskovitz called
[Mindfulasana](https://medium.com/bridge-collection/mindful-sana-e5932912d1df),
I re-opened a dormant Asana account. To be honest, the initial impetus was to
see what a product created by such mindful-focused folks looked like.

Because it was an experiment, I only added a single days worth of items from my
Trello board to my Asana list - and kept it conservative. If the items stayed
on the list for multiple days, I could safely remove them - they were backed up
in Trello cards. But removing them meant they stopped cluttering up my to-do
list view, which allowed me to focus on what was clearly more important.

At the end of each week, I empty the Asana list, and start again from scratch.
*To-do list zero lives*.

The second practice of to-do list zero: new “urgent” actions still get examined
and properly prioritized.

Urgent issues come up almost every day, especially when working on a growing
web product. But I was in constant context-switching
mode, always jumping into the latest fire and leaving the last one unsolved. I
knew this was ultimately unproductive and chock-full of mental clutter, so I
needed a new approach.

To-do list zero means no issues go straight to the Asana board - first, they
must be added to the Trello list. This forces me to pause and reflect - which
list do they go on, and where on the list? Sometimes, this pause is enough to
make me realize I shouldn't work on them at all, or that, when examined
critically, the urgent issue isn't big enough to deter me from my big goals.

When when someone comes to me with an urgent issue, I don’t start from a place
of “I can solve this!” (which is hard, because I get pretty happy pleasing
people), and instead I start with “no”. I *might* add a Trello card, or ask the
issue-bringer to open a GitHub issue, but I don’t add it to my Asana list until
I’ve carefully considered whether it needs to be done *today*. Remember, urgent
issues masquerade themselves as important issues all the time. In my
experience, most things that seemed critical to fix in the first moment, look
unimportant even five minutes later. Don’t forget to breathe before diving in.

**Lesson Learned:** The to-do list and inbox creates a constant mental load to
carry. Find ways to comfortably eliminate the trivial and keep even the vital
that you aren’t currently working on out of view.

**Bonus:** Oh, I also adopted Mailbox, and have found their “later” and “lists”
functionality incredibly liberating.





## Zero-based scheduling


My fiancé Marisa, a physical therapist, checks in with me between patients.
When she’d ask “how’s your day so far?” and I’d answer “ugh, nothing has gotten
done yet” she would push further, and helped me identify my scheduling
nightmare. I had said “yes” to so many recurring meetings, I was losing two full
days of my week just meeting with my co-workers! This also meant time I should
have spent making progress against project action items was spent updating
folks that “no progress had been made."

In reading the book [Essentialism](http://www.amazon.com/Essentialism-The-Disciplined-Pursuit-Less/dp/0804137382)
I learned the concept of [zero-based budgeting](http://www.bain.com/publications/articles/management-tools-zero-based-budgeting.aspx).
Instead of using the previous budget as a baseline, accountants start at zero,
and force every item on the expense report to justify itself before getting
added to the budget.

And so zero-based scheduling was born. Instead of supporting the status quo of
recurring meetings, I re-examined each for it’s value to my work, and my
interest in preparing adequately for it. There were standing meetings where we
decided on a weekly schedule, because that’s what Google Calendars provides,
when biweekly (once every other week) would do just fine. 1:1 meetings have
been a great example of that.

This critical examination practice has also made me better at declining
meetings I won’t be able to add to, or worse, I’ll be distracted during and
therefore won’t take anything away.

Try this exercise: draw five empty boxes for the days of the week, and add in
the meetings you know are on your schedule. Any that you forget? Cut instantly.
Any that you find yourself sighing while adding? Re-examine critically. Any
that are at the wrong time of day? Re-schedule. We get caught up in the flow of
our weeks and forget we can take control of our time.

Zero-based scheduling has been a godsend for me, and (secretly) those I work
with. Instead of forced conversations when I’m really thinking about something
else, the removal of recurring meetings means I’m *choosing* to engage in
conversations (albeit less frequently), and being deliberate about that being
a learning and curiosity time for me. It’s led to deeper, more meaningful
conversations, which keeps me excited for my next one. The perfect type of
cycle.

**Lesson Learned:** If not controlled, our schedule will fill up with
unnecessary meetings. Move all conversations possible to asynchronous medium
(like email, GitHub comments, etc.), and examine critically before adding any
new “standing” meetings.



## Backlog zero


I’ve been spending a lot of my time between the support and product realms,
learning what our customers want from our product and setting a vision for
bringing that to life. Part of that process was consolidating a long list of
known issues, and creating a uniform process for bridging the gap between our
customers experience and engineering to-do lists.

Emboldened by my personal to-do list clean out, I went hog wild, removing
issues that seemed extraneous, or that should be resolved through careful
product thinking (and not just jumping in). But even after whittling down the
list, I was left with the question of which comes first: major projects or
maintenance issues?

Our CEO Chris sent me a link to a [talk on product and team management](http://www.heavybit.com/library/video/2014-01-14-peter-van-hardenberg) 
by [Peter van Hardenberg](http://twitter.com/pvh) of Heroku. While the talk in 
it’s entirety is excellent and totally worth watching, Peter covers my *exact*
conundrum in the Q&A segment (~31 minutes in). He describes the concept of
“backlog zero”, which you’re probably aware of but never gave vocabulary to. If
a bug or issue has been open for six months, and it never rose to the level of
importance where it needed doing, you should safely close it.

I attacked our Trello board of maintenance tasks with new rigor, and started
pruning our lengthy GitHub issues list as well. Sometimes, things that seemed
like major customer issues at the time turn out to *never* come up again, and
we can safely close the issue until it becomes important enough to tackle.

While there is consistent progress being made towards our big goals, a shorter
issues list makes it scarier to review, and we’re able to slot those smaller
projects in as we go. This cadence creates increased the feeling of movement
and product velocity, which has definitely had an impact on my personal and
team morale.


---


So those are some of my recent zero-based practices. It can be so easy to
create a never-ending to-do list, fill an overbooked schedule, and spread
yourself thin on multiple “priorities”. These approaches have made it easier
for me to [clear to neutral](http://www.asianefficiency.com/habits/clearing-to-neutral/)
and be deliberate about what I want to work on, and when. As a result, I feel
more in control of my time and my growth.

I've found myself, for the first time in a long time, thinking about big vision
items. I'm excited about the future.
