---
layout: post
title: We're Getting Married!
description: Eight years ago, I met a special lady named Marisa. Yesterday, she
  said yes to marrying me. This is the story.
category: life
---

Yesterday was one of the best days of my life. My long-time girlfriend and best
friend, Marisa, said "yes" to marrying me. Talk about awesome!!

Of course, the first question on everyone's mind is, "so how did it happen?"
Because I'm so excited and geeked out on it, I respond with a super long story,
chronicling each and every detail. Sorry, I'm just too pumped up!

To save you the trouble of having to say "skip all that stuff" and before I
forget anything, I want to write it down. I hope you'll enjoy the story
{{ ":smiley:" | emojify }}.

<div class="post-image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/c0c5972c64f8dd883fa6717caeeca5d3c00ee71d.jpg" alt="marisa at Homewood" /></div>

I had been really nervous to propose for months. It seemed like something that
had to be *perfect* - I really wanted to come up with a good plan, because I
would only be able to do it once.

That pressure for perfection led to me really procrastinate. I give our mutual
friends, so much credit for getting me through it all. Laura, in particular,
pushed me to set up appointments with multiple jewelers, to help find the right
one. On a recommendation from Jared, we set up an appointment with Sevag from
[Boston Ring and Gem](http://www.bostonringandgem.com/). To make sure I didn't
make a fool of myself, Laura even came with me. Talk about dedication! It
wouldn't have turned out nearly as perfect without her help.

Sevag (who is awesome and you should work with) helped me with all the details
for the perfect ring, and then he asked, "so, when do you want this by?"
Although I had no solid plan, I knew we had a ski trip to Lake Tahoe planned
for mid-March. The best part was, Marisa had planned the trip for *my* 30th
birthday - she would never see it coming.  Sevag looked at me sideways when I
asked him for a quick turnaround time, and then said, "well, I'll give it a
shot."

The day before we flew out, the ring was ready. Talk about cutting it close!
You know how they say your life totally changes when you see your child for the
first time? I felt completely different when Sevag showed me the finished ring.
I was ready.

I stuffed the ring box as far into my carry-on bag as I could, and then watched
that bag like a hawk. Marisa didn't touch it between our house and arriving in
Sacramento.

<div class="post-image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/af2880cdc2853810abf2eeb4cc9f30b88dd3f87c.jpg" alt="sacramento airport" /></div>

At this point, as Chris can attest, that ring was really burning a hole in my
pocket. I was so excited! But I knew I'd come so far, and I really wanted the
perfect story for us to tell. Only one problem - I had no plan. None
whatsoever. Since it was in doubt that I'd have the ring for our Tahoe trip, I
hadn't wanted to get my heart too set on a proposal plan. I was just totally
winging it at this point.

Fast-forward our story to Friday morning. Let me set the scene - we were skiing at
[Homewood](http://www.skihomewood.com/), a (relatively) tiny ski resort in the
Lake Tahoe basin. It has breathtaking views - it looks like you're skiing right
into the lake! When we arrived, I thought to myself, "this could really work, I
might actually pull this off."

<div class="post-image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/8029564cd0533d515ce08686af734c21e612ce21.jpg" alt="homewood resort" /></div>

Then some wheels started to come off. To start, we got separated from Aaron and
Samantha, who were my planned documenters for the event. Then, the clouds
started rolling in, ruining the perfectly blue skies from the morning. Finally,
a wire bridge behind Marisa's teeth fell off! By the time we regrouped at the
car for lunch, I had scrapped my plans. It was just feeling like luck was
decidedly **not** on my side.

Sometimes, you just have to go for it, regardless of the (lack of a) plan. I
made up some excuse to get back to the car, and pulled the ring box from the
depths of my backpack. As Aaron and I rode the lift back up, the clouds
completely disappeared. I started sweating bullets. This was it!

Samantha, Aaron's girlfriend, deserves all the credit in the world for making
the moment special. In her first time skiing *ever*, she took the lift up to
the top of the mountain *just* to help me capture the moment.

I started shaking when we got off the lift. The ring box was bulky and heavy in
my jacket pocket. I had a few things I really wanted to say, and I kept running
through them in my head.

In the end, it was Marisa who suggested we stop to take photos at the beautiful
clearing Homewood has set up near the top of the mountain. From there, you can
see Lake Tahoe, and the snow-capped mountains that surround it. The whole scene
is framed with tall pine trees. It was perfect.

I could tell you all about the moment, but luckily Sam was there to record.

<iframe src="//fast.wistia.net/embed/iframe/7avlpim1cj?videoFoam=true" allowtransparency="true" frameborder="0" scrolling="no" class="wistia_embed" name="wistia_embed" allowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen webkitallowfullscreen oallowfullscreen msallowfullscreen width="645" height="363"></iframe><script src="//fast.wistia.net/assets/external/iframe-api-v1.js"></script>

I didn't get the chance to say much of anything, as Marisa's reaction was
so incredible I was lost for words. That didn't end up mattering much.

Over the last two days, I've been absolutely floored by the loving responses
from our friends and family. I can't believe how blessed we are.

So excited to marry my best friend.

<div class="post-image"><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/13e7e3b54f06c3a6caef301592cea936e535f81b.jpg" alt="post propose kiss" /></div>
