---
layout: post
title: The White-Space Day
description: |
  Feeling overwhelmed? You might benefit from a day dedicated to
  your own fulfillment.
category: organization, self-management, happiness
---

I was in it. I'm walking my dog Sherman the other morning morning, and suddenly
realize (as I'm barely avoiding a trash can) that I haven't paid attention to a
single step we'd taken together.

Instead, I was listening to a podcast, mentally walking through a presentation
I was to give later, and thinking through some team-related issues. My head was
so noisy, I could barely walk (which is hard enough for me already).

I knew the feeling at once - it was what I call *the overwhelm*.

---

First, I have to admit it's a big deal that I was able to identify that feeling
of *the overwhelm*. In the past, it would have just overtaken me, and I would
have fought through it until my next vacation, or until my body forced me to
spend a day on the couch, sick.

It's a real step for me to say "ok, I'm feeling overwhelmed. Why is that?"

Once you've identified how you're feeling, it really doesn't take much
reflective thought to figure out why. In my case, it's because I'm attacking
many goals at once, our team is feeling underwater, I'm stressing over an
upcoming vacation, and I've been a context-switching machine.

---

I looked at my schedule, because I've learned what I need when I'm feeling *the
overwhelm* - a complete **white-space day**.

**White-space days** are for gaining back the sense of pace and control in your
life. The activities that are part of a white-space day will differ for
everyone, because they should be lined up with what gives you that feeling of
fulfillment.

While few people I meet through work can believe it, I'm an introvert - my
childhood was spent playing computer games alone, reading, or walking around
the woods with my parents. My white-space days, therefore, are spent in
relative isolation, which Marisa often hates me for (her white-space days are
the *exact* opposite {{ "wink" | emojify }}).

**Today is a white-space day**. So far I've gotten coffee, walked the dog, and
organized and caught up on reading. Later, I'm going to put on Miles Davis and
clean the house. That's it.

---

In terms of organizing, one symptom of *the overwhelm* is that my *urgent*
to-do list fills up, while my *important* to-do list remains undone. I needed a
clean-out.

I outlined part of this process in my post called
[Zero](http://www.jeffvincent.me/zero). Here's what I do - Asana is for tasks
to be done this week (planned in my weekly review), and I use Trello as a
back-up and for longer-term tasks.

With my Asana list growing like a weed, I took an hour or so today and
transferred *everything* to Trello (so my Asana list is now completely empty).
In the course of this, I deleted a quarter of my to-dos - assigned them to
others, or just straight up removed them (if they are really important, they'll
come back).

<div><img src="http://embed.wistia.com/deliveries/ca8787985a17d52dccaf150d44150a44228fc6db.png" alt="trello board"/></div>

The Trello board is split into **Important** and **Urgent**, with each card
labelled with my big activities:

* Research
* Write-up
* Blog post
* Action

With that complete, I feel like a million bucks again. Time well spent.

Right after I send this, I'm going to go walk the dog again, this time with a
completely empty mind. I can't wait!
