---
layout: post
title: "Recover while moving"
description: |
  When working on things for the long-term, it's important to manage
  your energy.
category: time, work
---

We learned early on as cross country athletes how to recover while moving.

Our coach demanded we keep up a brisk pace between sprints or hill workouts. No
matter how much I wanted to stop and put my hands on my knees to
breathe, he would constantly nag to keep us moving.

As it often does, this pain paid off. During tough races, we could use
downhills or flat stretches to recover, even just slightly, for an uphill push
or final sprint. Being able to _recover while moving_ made us superior athletes,
even if the rest of our workouts were similar or even slower than our
competitors.

I started thinking about this concept a few weeks ago because I was in a funk.
I was frustrated with my work, overwhelmed with emails and to-do list items,
and constantly tired. I started thinking "have I hit a limit? why can't I do
[this] or [that] anymore?"

Less than a week later, I had emerged from the funk, feeling fresh and on top
of the world again. A break wasn't necessarily required, although that would
have likely been even better. What was required, instead, was listening to my
body (and mind) and pushing the negative inner talk away.

This wasn't my first time through this cycle - I've been at this work
consistently for five years or more. I've become more aware of the peaks and
valleys, which come and go over the course of a year. At this point, I think of
them as a natural part of working hard on creative projects.

I can't yet feel a down cycle coming on, I can only tell when I'm in the thick
of it. But when I discover myself there, I've found a few ways to manage, and
achieve some recovering while moving in my work.

## Schedule (mini-)vacations

I want to make sure I'm mentioning right off the top: being able to recover
while moving is NO excuse for not taking a vacation. Taking time off, expanding
your perspectives, learning new things - these are necessary for long-term
success.

But sometimes a vacation isn't possible, and it's difficult to plan far in
advance for your down cycles. That being said, taking vacations is a really
healthy practice, and can help you regulate stress.

If you can, find ways to turn your weekends into vacations as well, especially
when you start to feel like you need some recovery time. Turn your phone off,
turn down notifications, and remove email on the weekends. With the gmail app
for iOS, you can even turn accounts on or off without removing the whole app. I
remove  my work account from my phone when we'll be taking a weekend ski trip
or hanging out with family, so I have no chance of being distracted.

Truly free time from the expectations of work on weekends will help you recover
faster.

## Journal often

The negative self-talk that comes for me as part of a down cycle can be really
destructive, because it feeds on itself. I'll start doubting my work, or my
impact, and almost immediately I can find thirty thousand examples to support
my claim.

When I recognize I'm in a down cycle, I try to journal daily. I pick up a pad
and pen or use the Day One app on my phone or iPad, and just jot down how I'm
feeling. I work through problems I'm having at work or things that are leading
me to doubt myself. It's amazing to reflect on these thoughts after I've
emerged from the funk, and see how off-the-mark I was. Sure, some of my work
was below my expectations, but what's new? There wasn't some sort of major
deterioration in my ability.

## Clean out the cruft

The build-up of emails, to-do list items, and project context can lead me right
off the cliff and into one of these down cycles. I find myself exhausted,
despite plenty of sleep and almost no exhausting activity, because my mind is
just so damn _cramped_.

If I'm feeling down, I revisit what I'm working on. Am I still excited? Almost
always, that's a yes. I'm still very passionate about what I'm working on. If
I'm not - that would be a good indicator of burnout or a deeper problem.

Instead, it's normally that I'm excited, I just have too many thoughts
colliding in my head, and too many expectations hanging around my neck. A quick
trip through my Wunderlist and inbox helps me spot long-tenured work that needs
doing. Sometimes I can even find emails that just need to be archived, or to-do
list items I can completely drop. Maybe there are parts of a project I've been
putting off, and can delegate completely. Almost instantly, I can feel some of
the weight come off.

## Cross train

While work is something I love, it's still important to have other activities I
enjoy that I can work into my regular schedule. Those activities become
something I'm wholly engrossed in, such that I completely forget about work for
a while. If it's a regular part of my weekly schedule, I'm building in
micro-breaks from work that give me a breather and another place to feel
accomplishment and progress. Rock climbing for me has become a great cross
training activity, and I now spend 2-3 mornings a week at the rock gym.

For others, it's fiction reading, writing, running (I find that too cerebral),
or trivia at a local bar. Whatever it is, make sure you've got protected time
on your schedule for it each week.

---

I hope to be at this a long time, making a big impact while maintaining a
healthy life around my work. Relying on vacations or sabbaticals is not enough
- we need to build in ways to recover while moving. I hope this is a helpful
place to start!
